Creating a local repo.
Create a new folder on the C Drive.
Name the folder and open the folder with the git bash.
Run "git init" upon opening the git.
This will create a complete repo. folder including the config folder. 
Use "git remote add origin <link>" to add remote repo.The implication of running "git remote add origin <link>" is to fetch the online content from the cloud to the local repo.
Pull files with "git pull"
Push your own changes into central repo with "git push" 
The central repo. is the repo. created from the github.
Run "git pull origin main" to fetch the online content to the local repo.
Before files can be added to git,  it must first be in index.
Use "git status" to check the files present in the local repo.
Craeting or adding a new file to the local repo without committing it, will show untracked file affected file in red. Because it has not been added to the index.
To add the file, then run "git add" and "git status" to check the status.
Run "git commit m "" to make comment. 
'git add -A' is a command in Git that stages all changes in your working tree (your current directory and all its subdirectories) for commit. 
The -A option stands for "all" and stages all changes, including deletions, modifications, and new files.
There are two types of branches. 1. Local branches 2.Remote-tracking branches.


Creating a git branches
Launch the local git > type git branches + the name of branches e.g "git branches firstbranch"

Switch branches
To move or switch into branch type git checkout i.e "git checkout firstbranch"

Parallel Development -Merging 
It's a way to combine the work of different branches together.
Allows to branch off, develop a new feature and combine it back in.
Merging branch to master. Ensure you are in destination (master). Run this command git merge + branch name. "git merge firstbranch"
Run git commit -a -m "Comment" To updated the changes on the local repo. To view the added content; run cat "filename"

Rebase in Git
It's a way of combining the work between different branches
It can be used to make a linear sequence of commit.

To combine different branches using the rebasing run this command "git rebase branchname e.g "git rebase firstbranch"

Git Push
Pushing git to github can be done either by https, ssh or github cli
Check the github portal to copy your desire option
Generate a public ssh key add the key into your github account.
To implement the above, run "ssh-keygen". Respond to the prompt by providing passphrase and copy the specified path where the key saved and paste in there.

To add the SSH Keys
Go to the github account profile > settings > SSH and GPG Keys.
Go to the specified path to locate the public key > open with notepad. Paste the public key into the ssh. 
To connect to the github run this command "ssh -T git@github.com". Most times it will request for passphrase to successfully authenticate into the github.

To push to Github, run "git push origin firstbranch", check the github repo. to confirm.


Continous Integration with Jenkins
1. Why we need Continous Integration
2. What is Continous Integration
3. Continous Integration
4. What is Jenkins
5. Jenkins Distributed Architecture.
6. Hands-On

Jenkins is the most widely acceptable and used continous integration tool. 

// To install Jenkins, you need to download Java as its a major dependencies. 
Jenkins has 2 types of projects, Freestyle and Pipeline.
